do you want to increase your sales or
engagement on Instagram well if so
you're in the right place I just
finished recording a one hour live
training on how to use DM automation to
increase your engagement while selling
and increase your click-through rates
and purchase rates without further Ado
let's hop into that training but I want
to welcome everyone thank you so much
for joining us tonight in case you don't
know who I am my name is Brock Johnson
and it's my job to help you grow on
Instagram that's my specialties helping
other people grow on Instagram myself
personally I've grown from about 60 000
followers in 2021 to now over 660 000
followers today in 2023 I've been
growing at a rate of about a thousand
followers a day and it's my job to teach
you not just the strategies that are
proven to help you grow your following
but most importantly the strategies that
are proven to get you engagement and to
help you transition your followers into
customers into leads into sales because
at the end of the day if all we're doing
is gaining a following and building you
know a large community there's not much
to that right we need a way to
transition those people offline if we
are business owners which I would assume
many of us are or we want to be we want
to make an income online we can't just
have followers followers are great and a
community is valuable but at the end of
the day we need a way to transition
those followers into customers last time
I checked the views on your reels aren't
paying the bills last time I checked the
number of followers you have aren't
putting food on the table so we need a
way to actually transition those
followers into paying customers and
we're going to talk about today a way
that you can do that that is actually
shown to increase engagement
type a number uh obviously temple one
again we've already typed enough ones
type a capital A in the chat right now
if when you go to sell or promote things
or offer a course or a membership
whatever
when you go to sell on social media your
engagement goes down your views go down
people become crickets it goes quiet
suddenly everyone's okay lots of A's
type of B if when you go to sell your
engagement goes way up you get way more
views your best posts are always your
sales posts
or do we have any bees
I would have a b myself
I don't see any other bees and it's fine
if if you are a bee I would love to ask
you some questions at the end of
tonight's training but it makes sense
that most of us are in the a category
because that's why you're here right and
that's what I'm going to teach you
because there are strategies that you
are likely using that are being taught
by so many other social media coaches
that unfortunately aren't the most
effective strategies and in many cases
the strategies that are being taught and
this isn't because they're trying to
lead you astray they're not trying to
maliciously lead you down the wrong path
but they're just using outdated
strategies you're using the same
strategies that everyone else is using
and it's not working for anyone else so
of course it's not gonna work for you
either
all right we're going to get into the
training in just a second but I do want
to say before we even get started
tonight everything I'm going to share
with you is a general best tip a
recommendation there's no one size fits
all there is no one universal answer or
Pro or a solution to your problem I'm
going to give you what works for most
and it's your job
as an entrepreneur as a Creator as a
business owner who tests to implement
it's not our job to have all of the
answers but rather to ask all the
questions so I'm going to give you some
answers tonight
and then I want you to fact check me I
want you to test things out on your own
account try some of these strategies for
yourself and if they work awesome keep
using them that's great if they don't
work for you if you're a business coach
who you spent thousands and thousands of
dollars on tells you to do something
else
by all means give that a try and if
that's working for you do that all right
we're gonna get into the actual training
tonight we are talking about increasing
sales and engagement with DM automation
with DM automation but before we even
get into DM automation let's first talk
about the DMS why do the DMS matter well
first and foremost I think this one's
pretty obvious for relationships
DMS are Best Built or relationships are
best built in the DMS right that there's
that song it goes down in the DMS that
song was written because that's where
relationships are made that's where you
connect with people and that might be
where you slide into you know the the
next boyfriend or girlfriend but that
also is
as a business where you connect with
your customers that is where you build
trust
the number one most valuable asset that
a business can have in 2023 is not a
fancy sales page it's not a popular
podcast it's not a viral Tick Tock it is
Trust
because let's be real here we've all
gone through the last few years right
every human who's alive today who's
let's say every adult human who's alive
today has gone through the last three
years we've all lived through 2020 and
2021 and 2022 and we're like who can I
trust
who is being real with me who's giving
me honest authentic information that I
can trust that I can rely upon and what
businesses can I trust
and trust is built through relationships
and relationships are in the DMs
what else why else do the DMS matter
they matter for serving people and I
know we're talking about sales and I
know we're talking about engagement but
when you can serve someone on a
one-on-one level it is so impactful
and then finally of course selling right
that's why we're here we're talking
about selling we're talking about sales
and in fact here's a little statistic
for you on average when you're trying to
make sales followers are 73 more likely
to buy from a business that they've had
a prior DM conversation with what is DM
automation
in its simplest definition DM automation
is a tool that can automatically respond
to
and send messages to other users in its
simplest definition but that's kind of
confusing so we're going to talk about
that a little bit more I do want to give
you a warning that DM automation is only
allowed on Instagram with an approved
meta partner like manychat so there are
lots of services there are lots of
websites that offer DM automation but
it's only legal it's only allowed if
you're using an approved partner like
manychat not every company is some
companies are kind of sneaking their way
into Instagram
all right but what is DM automation not
because I think this is the more helpful
thing to talk about because you most
likely have a lot of preconceived
notions about DM automation a lot of
concerns about well is it this is it is
it hard to set up
if you can attend a zoom
which you can because here you are
you have the technical capabilities to
set this up
so I want you to right now type in the
chat I need everyone who's attending
right now live to type in the chat I can
set it up
you have to type that full sentence I
can set it up
I can set it up
if you have the ability to type the
words I can set it up you have more than
enough technical capability to set up DM
automation so the excuse of it's too
technical it's too it's too hard to set
up there's too many uh asks no it's not
I'm going to show you how at the end how
easy it is to set up it's as simple as
dragging and dropping you don't need to
know how to code
you don't need to learn some new fancy
software you don't need to download a
new app with new buttons you've never
heard of if you know how to just drag
and drop move things around
you have the capability
of setting up VM automation
next it is not 100 automation this is
one of the biggest misconceptions that
people have is that once they turn this
switch on suddenly every single message
they ever receive is getting an
automated response type uh number one in
the chat if that was something that you
believed might be the case with DM
automation is that once you turn it on
now all of your DMs are automated 100 of
the responses are automated I see a fair
amount of ones in the chat so I'm glad I
shared this it's not 100 automation
you get to customize and control how
much is automated and how much is not
automated
so you could literally automate one
little tiny conversation
it's not 100 automation
type a number two in the chat if you
were worried that DM automation is
spammy and inauthentic
it's spammy it's an authentic it's
salesy
type number two in the chat if that's
you
DM automation is not spamming
inauthentic and let me tell you why
you are not messaging new people
that is not a capability of DM
automation at least not with manychat
you are not able to send messages out to
new people
who's ever received those those messages
that are just from random people you've
never met them before you've never had a
conversation type me in the chat if
you've ever gotten those where it's like
hey girl I see that you're on a fitness
journey I'm wondering if you want to try
my new Shake
that's not what this is
in fact that's not even possible with
this I wish I could do that I wish that
I could DM every single person on
Instagram and be like hey do you need
Instagram tips follow me I wish I could
do that that'd be awesome
but no that's not possible and if I did
do that it'd probably be pretty spammy
and inauthentic that's not what this is
DM automation is when someone
who follows you someone who finds your
posts
they reply or send you a specific
keyword
they are asking for this they are asking
for the automation they are asking for
the link they are asking for what you
are going to sell them you're not just
sending it out to random people you're
not just that door-to-door salesman
knocking on the doors like hey would you
like to try this product no you are
specifically sharing this link or
sending this message to people who have
asked for it so it's not spammy and in
fact it allows you to be more authentic
because now you don't have to worry
about having this automated message that
you have to like type out manually every
single time instead you're able to
dedicate more time more energy and
effort into creating more authentic
content and engaging with people in a
more authentic way so that's a really
common misconception the next
misconception that people have is that
it's only for people with thousands of
messages or huge followings type a
capital H in the chat if you logged on
to tonight's training thinking I don't
know if this is for me because I don't
have a huge following
if you logged on to tonight's training
because you're like okay like this works
for Brock because he's got 600 000
followers but this isn't really for me
DM automation is for anyone who wants to
save time and increase their engagement
it doesn't matter if you have 50
followers or if you have 500 000
followers
and then finally expensive type a
capital e in the chat if you thought it
was expensive if you thought I was gonna
say this costs a couple thousand dollars
to set up
if you thought I was gonna tell you this
costs uh you know 300 a month
it's free
to set up free to get started
100 free to get started
as your business grows and you're
messaging thousands of people every day
then it will start to cost you but by
that point you're messaging thousands of
people a day your business can afford it
but when you're first getting started
it's free
DM automation is not the spammy and
authentic hey girl on a weight loss
Journey that's not what this is it's
also not these has anyone been getting a
lot of these messages recently type me
in the chat I'll send someone a message
and they'll and I'll get an instant
automated reply hi thanks for contacting
us we've received your message and no
that'd be like if every single time I
called your business I got sent to the
answering machine
that is not what this is
that is spammy that is inauthentic that
is 100 automation that is not what we're
talking about
so what are we talking about what are
the benefits of DM automation first and
foremost faster responses
why does why does that matter
why why do faster responses matter
because you might be thinking well Brock
I don't get very many DMS as it is I can
handle it on my own
type that's me in the chat if that's you
if you're like Brock I don't get that
many messages like I can handle it on my
own I'll be able to respond to everyone
on my own and like admittedly if that's
you say that's me
and that's totally fine if that's your
thought coming into this
here's the problem though
every single minute you wait
is a minute that that person is losing
interest is a minute that is hurting the
chances of that person becoming a
customer or a lead
in fact according to Forbes the average
lead response time is 47 hours that
means almost two days on average
maybe you're like well Brock I'm better
than that it only takes me a few hours
it only takes me sometimes even a couple
minutes
the likelihood of reaching a shopper
within five minutes
is 10 times higher than if you wait 10
minutes
think about that
so if you're someone who you're like
well Brock I usually respond to them the
same day it usually only cost me like it
takes me a couple hours to respond
sometimes I respond pretty quick the
likelihood of reaching Shoppers
decreases by 10 x if you wait 10 minutes
versus five minutes
that is why the faster you can respond
the better
every single second you wait is the
second that they might be losing
interest closing Instagram doing
something else getting distracted buying
a different product searching for a
different solution
and so time is of the essence
and so if you want to respond
immediately I think you have two options
you can either have it as an automated
response
or you could spend all flipping day on
your phone sitting here waiting for a DM
to come in just so you can quickly
respond as far as I'm concerned none of
us want to spend any more time on our
phones
so that is one of the biggest benefits
of DM automation
not only is it faster responses it's
also Advanced interactive tools I'll
talk more about this later but you can
do more with a service like manychat or
with DM automation then you can just on
your own
third
more people opening your messages
the average direct message on Instagram
guess what percent
guess what percent is open what percent
of direct messages on Instagram are
opened is it 50 of messages is it 20 is
Maggie guessed is it 80 of messages on
Instagram what percent of messages on
Instagram are opened I'll give you a
little hint on email and awesome email
open rate would be like 30 or 40 like if
you sent an email out to people and you
had like 30 or 40 percent of those
people opening the email that'd be
awesome
ready for this
98 percent
98 open rate
we all have unread emails right we all
have like hundreds of emails in the spam
folder that we're never going to open
how many unread DMS do you leave sitting
there for days
probably not very many
98 open rate and then finally more
purchases and clicks we've seen up to
10x we've actually now seen with some of
our students up to 30 times more
purchases and clicks when using DM
Automation and let's talk about why
when I talk about
promoting things on Instagram or selling
something on Instagram
what comes to mind first like what when
we're talking about how you actually do
that
you're actually going to send someone to
a link how do you do that answer me in
the chat like if I was like hey I have
this um this phone case and I need you
to sell this phone case to your
followers how are you going to show them
that link there's kind of like two two
main options don't overthink it the link
button yeah Cassie said the links
Lincoln bio or the link sticker on the
stories right like those are the the two
main options the link on stories as
Madison said or the Lincoln bio
of those two options the Lincoln story
is more effective generally speaking the
link in story gets more clicks than the
Lincoln bio
but let's talk about the link sticker
let's talk about that link on your
stories and what does it actually look
like what are the actual numbers
the link sticker on Instagram stories
there's a few problems with this link
sticker I already told you it's more
effective than the Lincoln bio but it
still has some problems and those
problems include on average these are
averages these are not the Brock numbers
these are not you know our students this
is this is across Instagram as an
average
40 fewer views
a one percent click rate
no follow-up
and no relationship
you have no idea who clicked you have no
idea if they had problems you have no
opportunity to build a relationship with
them you have no opportunity to follow
up if they get lost or confused along
the way
so let's let's look at this in like real
numbers because these are abstract
percentages let's look at the actual
numbers type uh me in the chat if you
have approximately around a thousand
followers approximately maybe you have
800 maybe you have 1200 maybe a 15 maybe
you have two thousand but you have
somewhere around a thousand followers
all right
so if you have approximately a thousand
followers
on average
your stories will reach
4.8 percent of those people
that means on average if you have 1 000
followers
you will reach about 48 viewers on your
stories that's on average that's
starting point
that's starting point
now take those 48 viewers
and multiply it by 40 less viewers
because you said you put that link
sticker
you're trying to promote something
you're an affiliate you have a new
course you have a membership whatever it
is you're selling you put the link
sticker
now
you've gone from 48 views
down to 29 views
29 views times a one percent click rate
is 0.29 clicks
so it's no wonder that you're struggling
to make sales right it's no wonder that
people aren't buying you're using
strategies that are hurting you you're
using strategies that are not very
effective
does this explain a lot
does this like yes or no in the chat
does this explain that it's not
necessarily that there's something wrong
with your product it's not necessarily
that there's something wrong with you or
your offer it's not that you're not
pretty enough it's not that you don't
have the best filters it's not that your
product sucks it's not that you're
overpriced or that you don't know how to
sell the problem is you're just using an
outdated strategy
you're not using or selling I should say
in the most effective way possible
so let me share with you how DM
automation can change that how selling
in the DMs can change that
this is our 2023 insta Club Hub data so
this is not what I'm showing you right
now these percentages these are from our
insta Club Hub members so that's why
they're slightly higher than what you
saw on the previous slide this comes
from we have about 10 000 members in the
insta Club Hub and as you saw in the
previous slide uh the stories click rate
was about one percent remember that for
our insta clubbers the average story
link link click rate is a little bit
below four percent it's about four
percent so a little bit higher but still
pretty low
the average link click rate in the
direct messages
74.5 percent
when sending someone
a link in the DMS on average about three
out of four people will click on that
link
I know I called her out earlier because
she was the first person to turn on her
video but Lee I am loving your facial
expressions I am loving how many times I
have seen I have seen Lee make this face
about 10 times in the last minute and I
love it
so we're going to talk more about this
we're going to talk more about DM
automation I'm going to show you how to
set it up I'm going to talk to you about
the features I'm going to give you some
tips if you're already ready to get
started which again it's free to get
started shoot me a message on Instagram
right now do not put it in the chat
because if you put it in the zoom chat
nothing will happen if you go to my
Instagram right now
and you send me a direct message with
the word manychat you will receive a
link to get started for free I'll also
put it in the actual Zoom chat right now
let me pull this into the zoom for you
so if you don't have the ability to open
Instagram right now or you don't want to
or you're on your phone there is the
link in the actual Zoom chat does
everyone see that in the zoom chat yeah
okay it's right there in the zoom chat
everyone can see that
I'll put it a couple times so that you
see it there we go three in a row in the
zoom chat all right so you can send me a
message or let's just keep going
DM automation tips number one start
simple
let me give you an example
my dog's birthday was last week
and so and my dog has her own Instagram
account
and so on my dog's Instagram account
we set up an automation that was super
simple
you wanna know what it was it was
whenever someone said happy birthday
they automatically got a response that
said thank you so much I appreciate it
let's celebrate
let's have a party with like paw Party
part you get it there's a pun
start simple
that's as simple as you can get
she's a dog Instagram account with
thousands of followers so she got a lot
of messages wishing her a happy birthday
and rather than my wife and I spending
an hour or two out of our day responding
to every single happy birthday message
we set up an automation so those people
felt appreciated so those people got a
response
they just said thank you
second tip don't automate everything
we've already talked about this do not
try to you're going to overwhelm
yourself if you do that if you're like
I'm going to automate everything what's
I'm going to imagine anything that
anyone could ever possibly send me and
I'm going to come up with an automated
response no that's super inauthentic
that's not it that ain't gonna work
don't try to do that
number three and this is a great way to
keep yourself authentic to keep your
messages honest
be clear when it is automation
often times when I'm telling people
hey comment the word cool and you'll
receive a direct message from me I'll
let them know that you're going to
receive an automated response with the
link I'm not trying to hide the fact
that I'm using automation I'm telling
them
sometimes I put it in the response
so that when they get that message they
they type the keyword and then they get
that automated response
the automated response is hey this is
the brockbot just sending you this
message because you asked for it
hey this is the brockbot Brock's
automated robot assistant being very
honest and transparent I'm not trying to
trick people into thinking they're
actually talking to me when they're not
I'm being honest being clear when it is
automation number four
don't just sell
do not use I know we're talking about
increasing sales and engagement but do
not just use automation to sell or else
people will stop responding
type a number seven in the chat if
you're you're attending tonight which
you obviously you are but you you showed
up and this whole time you've been
thinking well Brock I I don't get that
many messages I don't get that many DMs
no one's really commenting keywords for
me no one's really doing that
that's because I would bet
often times the way you're asking them
to engage or the keywords you're asking
them to send or the things you're asking
them to do
it benefits
it's something that's helpful for you
it's a sale for you it's a promotion for
you
it's your new YouTube video it's your
new podcast it's your new course it's
your new product it's your company's new
sale
what's in it for them
use DM automation to serve your
followers not just to sell to them
what does that look like maybe you're
going to give them a free download maybe
you're going to give them a free gift
maybe there's a coupon code
maybe there is
um a bonus tip that's one of my favorite
ways to use DM automation
I'll make a post I'll say here are three
tips to
becoming whatever three tips to growing
on Instagram
three tips for figuring out your
hashtags
three tips for making more money
whatever
and then I'll put in my caption
comment the word for and I'll send you
the fourth tip
comment the fire emoji and I'll send you
a bonus tip
now I'm using it to serve my audience
rather than just sell to them and I'm
training my audience
now they're getting used to dming me
they're getting used to commenting their
pattern they're habitually engaging with
my content because they know they're
going to get something out of it not
because I'm going to sell to them not
because I'm trying to take their money
but because I'm trying to serve them
more effectively
so don't just
don't just sell serve
next use Easy and short keywords
easy and short keywords I try to keep my
keywords to just one word and when I say
keywords again I know I haven't
explained it explicitly but essentially
how this works is your followers send
you a keyword and then they get an
automated response
or your followers comment a keyword they
don't even have to send it to you via
direct message sometimes you can set it
up so that all they have to do is
comment on your post with that keyword
then they get the direct message use
short and easy words things that are
easy for people to spell
and then finally write the messages in
your voice or your tone if you're
someone who's more casual write your
messages more casually if you're someone
who's very professional then make your
automated messages more professional
sounding just write them in your voice
using words that you would use
now who wants some examples because I
always feel like examples are helpful
type me in the chat if you feel like
some examples would be helpful yes okay
awesome yes
all right let's do it let's do some
examples
I'll make sure my volume's cranked up
here all right so here's this first one
you're gonna see that she does three
things in this video she first
introduces the problem
then she offers a solution
then she tells her followers her viewers
to comment the word blank and she'll
send it to you she introduces the
problem and the problem that she
introduces in this video is do you want
to and you can kind of see it on the
screen right here do you want to burn
stored body fat here's how
you could how could you do this for your
Niche insert whatever your Niche is
what's the problem that people are
facing in your industry
what's the problem that you solve what's
the problem that your product solves
what's the problem that your followers
know they have in her case
she's an rdn
and she said
that a problem that her followers have
is they want to earn stored body fat so
she introduced the problem
then she shared a solution she taught
for a little bit she gave some tips and
then she said I have a guide I have a
free guide to help walk you through this
in more detail that was her solution
comment the word guides and I'll send it
to you
to you that's what her video essentially
said now Shauna here
on average gets about 100 comments per
video
on average Shawna receives 100 comments
per video guess how many comments she
got on this video
she averages 100 so did she get a little
bit less did she get a hundred people
asking for the guides did she have more
she have 200 people did she have two
times more comments yes go ahead in the
chat who can guess how many comments she
received over 1 000 comments
she normally gets a hundred she got over
a thousand that's ten times her average
so maybe you only get three comments
what would ten times your average be 30
comments 30 people asking for your free
download 30 people asking for your link
30 people asking for your course
Tracy said what that's amazing
where's Tracy right here Tracy knows how
amazing this is because Tracy uses this
herself
Tracy is one of our All-Star insta Club
Hub students
what if you sell a product like Tracy
does in this video this video if I can
get it to play it's very short and to
the point
she then uses manychat to grow her
challenge with a keyword on the video
and Tracy it from this video got over
200 comments it's super short it's super
sweet it's to the point in this video
from Shauna she was giving like a very
educational direct to camera you can see
she's talking directly to the camera
just like I am right now what I love
about this video from Tracy is she's not
even speaking in the video
it's just if I remember correctly like a
trending audio with some quick videos
put on top over 200 comments from that
one video
another example here you can look these
up you can fact check me if you want to
this one comes from your Jewish life she
has a planner a journal for Jewish women
and so she created this reel that was
just kind of documenting her own uh her
own use of her journal it was literally
like she lit the candles you can see
here she like got out her journal I
think she like laid on on the edge of
the couch
um she sat on the ground she started
writing in her journal closed it up
walked away it was like a seven second
video with a little Jewish song in the
background
she said you can kind of see it down
here at the bottom in her caption she
said comment JJJ if you want a Jewish
Joy Journal
and this generated over 300 in journal
sales in one day so Mitch who asked what
if you're selling a service what if
you're selling a product insert whatever
it is that you want to send
I don't care if you're sending someone a
Jewish Joy journal or if you're selling
an affiliate juicer like Tracy was in
this video or if you're selling a
service like maybe this is a guy maybe
in replace guide with coach
in Shauna's example rather than sending
people the link to a guide you're
selling people
a coach you're going to do coaching
that's a service
what if this what if that insert your
own Niche insert your own problem insert
your own solution here
again I know I put this up already if
you are ready to get started it's free
to get started
message me the word manychat I'm telling
you about this not because I get a
kickback I don't get anything from you
signing up but you if you message me the
word manychat or if you go to the link
which I will put in the chat right now
you can sign up for free
and if you use code Brock with a capital
b-r-o-c-k if you use that code you get
one month of their Pro features for free
because there are some bonus features
there are some Advanced capabilities of
manychat that aren't with the free uh
the free uh subscription
and so if you use code Brock
when you are at checkout you get one
month of the pro for free I'll write
that in the chat as well code Rock
one month row four free
and the great thing about that is you
could try it out for a month
now there's uh same features on
Instagram as well what is the difference
is there the same feature so this is not
offered on Instagram Instagram itself
does not have DM automation
that's listen
we all know Instagram's got a lot of
glitches right
type of capital G in the chat if you
know Instagram has a lot of flipping
glitches
so I don't trust Instagram and I think
they very wisely don't even trust
themselves to try to set this up I mean
Instagram won't even let me post a reel
without my text glitching and deleting
part of it and the audio is gone so if
Instagram can't even get reels figured
out after three years
they can figure this one out
that's why they've partnered with
manychat that's why manychat is an
official partner of Instagram it is a
service a tool that you add into your
Instagram tool belt
official partner they're they're BFFs
Instagram or I should say meta and
manychat they're BFF so it's a partner
you're not going to get banned or
blocked it's totally legal to do this
and that's why I recommend using
manychat
free to get started it's simple and easy
to use and it leads to better results it
leads to more sales it leads to more
clicks how much is it after the free
month it varies depending on how many
messages you're sending and how many
contacts or followers you have so if you
have thousands and thousands and
thousands of followers and you're
getting hundreds of messages every
single day that are using automation
because that's a key distinction it only
will charge you based off the messages
using automation well then you're going
to be charged more but if you're someone
with a relatively low following who's
using this very uh intentionally you're
not using it for hundreds of messages a
day well then you're not going to be
charged nearly as much that's why I
can't give you like a a flat fee because
it isn't a flat fee it's based off how
many followers you have
would this work for realtors yeah
what we're not going to get into because
we're going to get into q a in just a
second but what I need everyone to
promise me we're not going to do
is ask one or two variations of these
one or two questions
would it work for
would it work for scuba instructors
would it work for real estate agents
would it work for coaches would it work
for Network marketers would it work for
would it work for would it work for yes
it works for anyone who wants to spend
less time
and increase their engagement or sales
that's who it works for so if you're
someone who wants to spend less time on
Instagram and yet serve their followers
in a more effective way then yes it
works for it works for you
all right so we're not going to do
that's not the question we're going to
do
we're also not going to do how would it
work for
let's talk about some bonus features
some bonus features before we open it up
for Q a we will start q a in just a
second three bonus features that I want
to specifically show you right now and
there's so many more I don't want to
overwhelm you but for some of you I know
you're excited I know Lee is fired up so
I just want to show you some of these
bonus features uh just to tickle your
fancy a little bit
so first of all
this is a bonus feature you can't do a
normal DM you can do it with manychat
and you can do it with DM automation you
can have multiple choice options
so what does that look like
some of you might have received this
message when you were signing up if you
signed up via VIA DM
if you signed up for today's training
via direct message you might have
received this this message from me
this was after you gave me your email
said excellent if you would like to
receive SMS offers on exclusive
upskilling courses please let us know
yes please or no thanks I'm giving
people options I could even add a third
that says what does this mean
will I be charged
what are the SMS offers
what are the courses
essentially you're giving people options
and based on which option they choose
they can get a different response after
that
so I could be like are you ready to
join this course yes or not right now if
they type yes they're taken directly to
the link
if they type not right now it's it might
have an automated response that says
okay I totally understand what questions
might you have
how could I help you
okay would you like this discount code
automatic responses from multiple choice
options another and this this next one
is one of my all-time favorites
in app lead generation
you know how normally
when you're trying to buy something on
Instagram or you're trying to like sign
up for for some subscription or maybe
you're signing up for a free thing on
Instagram you're trying to get a
download normally you would have to go
to the link right you're in Instagram
you have to then go to the link and type
in your name and email
type number one if that's what you
normally do
I would assume that's what we all
normally do right like whether you're
clicking the link in BIO a Lincoln
stories or the link in the DMS you click
on it and then it kind of like opens
this mini browser within Instagram and
then from that mini browser you have to
like then put in your information right
what if
what if your followers didn't have to go
to that link
what if they didn't have to click and go
to your landing page and then type in
their name and email address what if
they could just put that in the DMs
and then automatically be added as a
lead automatically be put on your email
list automatically be subscribed or
signed up
this is possible with DM automation
so here's a little example this guy sent
me the keyword get messages
so he received an automated message
then he tapped to register
and I said you've got it or I should say
my automation said you've got it what
email address can we send the webinar
link to which is this webinar that you
are watching right now this gentleman
might be on this webinar right now as we
are speaking live or he might be
watching on the replay
what email he typed his email right
there in the DMS he didn't have to go to
a separate website he didn't have to
leave Instagram where he's having fun
where he's getting all this dopamine
where he's engaging and watching videos
and content in reels he can instead just
comment right there in the DMS and it
will automatically
put his email onto my email list
then
I said I sent him that uh automated
message from before
right where it showed uh excellent if
you would like to receive SMS offers yes
or no he said yes okay what's your
mobile number now I can collect his
phone number right there in the DMS
all of this without leaving Instagram
and then finally this is a brand new
actually I shouldn't say it's a brand
new feature it's a brand new feature
that that needs more attention it's a
feature that has actually been around
for a little bit
but
it's it's something that is a focal
point of meta a focus of Instagram a
focus of manychat it's called CTX ads
CTX ads now I know not everyone here
runs advertisements I know not everyone
here does promotions but if you are
someone who does run ads if you are
someone who does do promotions or if you
have a marketing team if you have an ads
team
tell them about this
CTX ads stands for ads that click to
direct message
so type a number five in the chat
if you're struggling to reach new people
on Instagram
your organic posts are not reaching new
people
yeah lots of fives
you don't have to run ads I want to make
that overtly clear to you you do not
have to run ads you do not have to pay
Instagram Ascent you do not have to
promote posts it is a myth
that in order to grow on Instagram you
have to pay
that is a myth that has been disproven
time and time again you do not have to
promote things run ads or or uh you know
pay Instagram or meta or anything like
that in order to grow but
with that being said now that we're all
on the same page
ads are beneficial there's a reason why
every major business incorporation runs
ads
because they are a great way to reach
new people
to connect with a quote-unquote cold
audience people who haven't seen you who
don't know you
and the awesome thing about CTX ads
is that we've seen up to 600 percent
higher return on investment
that means for every dollar that you
invest in your ads let's say on average
for every dollar you invest on ads you
make two dollars back
you would now be making twelve hundred
dollars back up to 600 percent higher
Roi
when I saw that that was that that's all
it took for me because I hadn't been
using this strategy this is something
that's new to me and that's part of the
reason that we're doing this webinar
today is because I wanted to tell you
about this feature right here because
some of you have heard about DM
automation before some of you know what
DM automation is or you've heard me talk
about it but this one blew my mind
when I was like you can run an ad
and people will click from the ad rather
than going to your landing page your
sales page your marketing whatever
they're going right to your DMs they're
clicking from the advertisement right to
your DMs that's powerful
ads reach new targeted Instagram or
Facebook users this is basically how how
this process would actually work
then the users stay in the app they stay
on Instagram and they engage with you on
Instagram right there you're not sending
them somewhere else you're not asking
them to leave Instagram they're staying
in the app and engaging and then the
chat bot starts
the sale
or maybe even finishes the sale
it can automate you can automate it so
that maybe it only sends one message and
then you are going to finish the sale
you are going to have a conversation you
are going to finish the sale or
the chat bot could do that for you
so if you have questions please put them
in the chat I understand that this is a
huge topic for so many of us I
understand this is a new topic for so
many of us I know there are going to be
so many questions so uh go ahead pop me
on pop them all in the chat do you have
YouTube videos or IG that focuses on CTX
ads awesome question
um actually I have a link for you so
manychat who of course they're the
creators of this they're the experts of
this they have an entire webinar showing
you how to set this up so Nick and
anyone else who you were excited by that
very last thing I talked about CTX ads
here I'll put that in the link or in the
chat I'll put that link in the chat so
there it is right there everyone can see
that
events.manichat.com I want everyone to
stop questions for just one second so
that we don't lose those links everyone
sees those links in the chat it's
events.manichat.com that is a webinar a
free webinar I believe it's free that
manychat created so that
um anyone who wants to learn more about
CTX ads can actually learn about setting
them up and how to create them I'm not
an expert in that myself I don't claim
to be I'm not going to try to uh teach
you something that I don't know so I
would highly recommend watching that
webinar I watched myself and it was very
informative very helpful and I
immediately sent that to our ads team
and was like you guys need to watch this
but with that let's answer some more
questions
all right
will you be showing us tutorials on how
to do it I will show you right now a
very quick explanation of how to do it
but I also want to tell you this on
manychats website they have hundreds of
free tutorials free templates that you
can use because they want to make this
easy for you and they don't want you to
feel overwhelmed by um you know having
to learn a new skill necessarily so on
their website on manychat.com they have
tons of free lessons free tutorials but
I will I'll pull up right now and show
you exactly
exactly what my manychat looks like so I
will here
let me show you right now
okay
here we are inside of my manychat
I'm going to go to the big blue button
up here in the upper right that says new
flow
new flow
this is all it takes you need to do two
things
set up a trigger
and set up what's gonna happen
and you can see down here there's even a
little help bot I'll get rid of that
little helpbox so set up a trigger
what's going to trigger the Automation
and what's going to happen so let's set
one up live right now and you can help
me test it let's set one up right now so
let's set it up so that when a user
sends a direct message
I can do comments replies to a story
user clicks a referral link or let's do
this one user sends a direct message
with a keyword
let's say the message contains the word
uh let's see what word give me a random
word in the chat
let's do a random word in the chat what
word should we use for this random
automation this is just for us
this is just live
no not France yes France
France I'm not going to do live or chat
because those are one actually we're
gonna do avocado we're gonna do avocado
because I feel like people are probably
messaging me like I hope you enjoy
France so let's do avocado
avocado
all right
so now that's the keyword
keyword is avocado
now what's going to happen next you can
see this little arrow what's going to
happen next
well I want them to get a message on
Instagram
and what do I want that message to say
let's add my text let's tell them
get back to the training
now I press publish
that's it
I'm done
that's how easy it is to set up DM
automation now anyone and you can test
this out go ahead go to my Instagram
right now and send me the word avocado
and then let me know in the chat did it
work did you get this response
we'll give everyone a few seconds here
so now whenever this supposedly that's
how this should work
Tyler Hill said yep it worked
yes
yep how do I add the link I press add
button
and I can say uh Google
or I can actually name the button so
let's say click here
click here and I'm gonna have it oh so
look look how easy this is so right now
I'm adding a button look it tells me
button title I'm going to enable it name
it click here
when this button is pressed what do I
want to happen well I want to open a
website
well what should the website URL be what
about uh google.com
done
I'll hit publish boom
now for anyone who sends the word
avocado you can try it again if you send
me the word avocado
it's going to say get back to the
training click here and then they're
going to open Google
that is how easy it is to set up and use
DM automation
so I'm going to actually delete this
right now because I don't want someone
to send me the word avocado in the
future and get this actually I'll leave
it up I'll leave it up and for whoever
sends me uh the word avocado in the
future they'll just be confused they'll
be like wait what training
all right
if you are doing a brand deal would
manychat be an acceptable way to share
the link Crystal
you just struck gold
Crystal you just struck gold
you are able to
charge Brands say you're doing a brand
deal or a partnership you're able to
charge them a lot more when you use DM
automation why
because you can promise them better
results you can promise them more clicks
you can promise them more people
actually visiting their site more people
actually purchasing whatever it is that
you are promoting for them so yes
admittedly selfishly I wish no one would
do this because I do this and I love
being able to tell Brands I'm going to
get you 46 higher conversion rates
because I'm going to use this fancy
thing called DM automation that no one
uses yet
I know in a couple years everyone's
going to be using DM automation I've
been talking about it for the last year
and a half I'm still waiting for
everyone else to get on board
you because you're at this training
right now you have the opportunity to
start using this tool and be one of the
early adopters
be one of the first people to start
using this tour before everyone uses it
before everyone uses it and it becomes
over saturated and overused and everyone
everyone's over it
right now
it's not too late
how do you do that when selling a
product same thing
once people DM you
um are in your manychat world can you
Mass DM them
no yes and no so Crystal's question was
basically like once someone sends you
one keyword can you just send that
person a message at any time
not really
they have to specifically subscribe
that's a whole different thing that's a
whole different uh tool within manychat
um that basically they can subscribe to
receive messages from you anytime and
that is that's another thing we can do
an entire training on that but
essentially how that would work is you
set that up you set up that flow within
manychat and then when someone
subscribes now you can send that person
a message at any time you could send
them a promotional message you could
send them a link you could send them
whatever at any time so that is Advanced
it is possible but very few people are
using that right now
yes it would be great for a flash sale
instead of adding the link to your story
add the link to the automation yes
absolutely
they are not case sensitive
no uh DM automation is not case
sensitive uh but a pro tip include typos
include typos so like when I set up the
automation for manychat the word
manychat people might say many space
chat they might type mini chat like
m-i-n-i chat because they misunderstand
how I'm pronouncing the word they might
uh I've someone one time asked am I
saying Manny chat like the person's name
Manny Manuel uh Manuel am I saying Manny
chat so I include all those typos so if
someone does send me a keyword and they
have a typo in their keyword they're
still getting the automated response
that they expect to receive that's a pro
tip but no it is not case sensitive so
it doesn't matter if I do you know
capital A and avocado or all lowercase
avocado or all caps avocado is not case
sensitive
there are a bunch of many chat trainings
within the insta Club Hub yes Allison
awesome awesome
can you delete a manychat if you want to
use that keyword again yes
yes absolutely I do this all the time
because sometimes I'm doing a training
and fi and I want to set up an
automation for it and five months later
that word would be the perfect keyword
for a new training you can absolutely
delete it
um and set up a new one uh so again if
any of you want to experiment with this
you want to try it out you're ready to
get started just send me Brock 11
Johnson send me the keyword manychat
send that to me on Instagram don't send
it to me in the zoom chat nothing will
happen if you do that send that to me on
Instagram I'll also put the link in the
chat in case you are not able to pull up
Instagram right now or you just don't
want to
There's the link in the chat
manychat.com forward slash meet hyphen
Brock Johnson you'll see my face on the
page and that is the link uh where you
can learn more about manychat you can
get signed up for free and also if you
use my code use code Brock with the
capital B that is case sensitive use
code proc you'll get one month of pro
for free well I wanna I wanna thank you
so much for being here tonight I want to
thank you for taking the time out of
your your day your morning your
afternoon your evening tomorrow no
matter when you're watching this thank
you for spending this day with me I
appreciate it I want you to Pat yourself
on the back there's a lot of other
things you could be doing right now
there's a lot of other areas you could
be spending time on but you chose to get
better you chose to to learn and to grow
so thank you so much for being here I
appreciate you the replay will be up
within probably about 24 hours and I'll
send you an email once it is uh in case
you need to re-watch this or in case you
need to send this to your team to make
sure that they watch this so that should
be up very soon but thank you so much
and uh enjoy the rest of your day
evening night good morning whenever it
is thank you so much